[Music]
When we talk about copy control, then this is very important,
if you define own classes,
that should have value behavior.
So one very basic example could be:
you define a class for complex numbers.
And of course, class for complex numbers,
you want to add complex numbers,
you want to copy complex numbers, assign it to each other.
The same thing could be: you have a vector,
like this also found in the standard library,
or any other object, that you want to use
in a value like way and assign it to each other.
So copy control is basically,
that you have to define special member functions,
that control what happens to your object,
when you copy them or assign them, or you destroy it.
And in order to implement copy control
for a class, you basically have to implement three
or now since C++11 five different
functions, member functions basically.
You need a destructor.
The destructor of course does the cleaning up,
when your object is destroyed,
a copy constructor as it basically is invoked,
when you copy the object,
or and in addition to that the assignment operator.
And for the move versions,
that of course take them r-value references
you have the move constructor
and the move assignment operator.
A little bit more details about the copy constructor.
So what does it do? It initializes a new object
as a copy of another object
and it is applied implicitly to pass object
to or from a function by value.
If you want to prevent that, remember you have
to define the copy constructor to be explicit.
And also a second thing to know,
if you do not define your own copy constructor,
the compiler synthesizes one for you.
Again the list. When it is used?
If you initialize one object from another.
Copy an object to pass it as an argument to a function,
copy an object to return it from a function,
initialize the elements in a sequential container,
or also initialize the elements in an array.
So there are several places, where it is invoked.
The synthesized copy constructor is as said
created by the compiler
and what it does. It does member wise initialization
of the new object from the existing one.
That means it copies member by member
from the old object to the new one.
If you have built-in or compound type members,
then they are directly copied
and the class type members,
they again invoke the members copy constructor.
Here again in red, if you want to prevent copies in general,
then you must explicitly declare
your copy constructor as private.
So you cannot access it from outside,
or you just write that it is "= delete",
then it will be not created at all.
The assignment operator is the one
you can overload inside your class
and it tells you, what it means to assign one object
of a class to another one of the same type.
Must be defined as a member
and it should return a reference to its object.
Again if you don't define your own assignment operator,
then the compiler synthesizes for you
And here the same things hold as for the copy constructor,
so it's working basically member wise, the assignment
And also the same rules apply
for the built-in or compound types,
they are assigned directly and the class type members,
they again invoke the members assignment operator.
The destructor is now a special member function,
that cleans up an object,
when it goes out of scope or is deleted.
The compiler here automatically destroys each member.
For the members of class type
the corresponding destructors are invoked.
And for the built-in or compound types
no explicit work is done to destroy them.
So when the object pointed to
by a pointer member is not deleted,
this means you can have a memory leak
and therefore basically all memory,
that you have dynamically allocated in the class,
you have also to free in the destructor.
[Music]
programming examples see you for the
next video